A draft reconstruction of the glycosylation, metabolism, and nucleotide sugar transport systems was created using the CHO-K1 and
Chinese hamster genome annotations, comprehensive reaction databases for candidate enzymatic functions, and published experimental
data. To follow the genome reconstruction methodology, glycosylation
genes were organized into functional classes, a CHO-specific metabolic
map (Supp. Fig. 1) was defined, and substrate and cofactor usage,
neutral enzymatic reactions, gene and reaction localization, heteromeric enzyme complexes, isozyme functionalities, intracellular transport mechanisms, and supporting metabolic reactions were all verified.
The mathematical model was created using media feed components,
fuzzy enzyme parameters (0−5) representing each enzyme's flux to
determine the likely glycoform composition (a fuzzy parameter is the
quantitative value of a variable that has been transformed to a discretized parameter state within bins) (Sokhansanj et al., 2009), and
simplified enzyme reaction kinetics dependent upon the discretized
parameter values (that is, a reaction rate that is a single discrete value
rather than modeled using, for example, Michaelis-Menton rate expressions). Unbalanced or missing reactions as well as reaction directionality and limitations were identified and rectified. The GlycoMapper flux parameters emulate the transcriptomic and proteomic data
(if available). If the fluxes are not measured, the parameters are set to
minimize the number of differences between the experimental reference glycoform and the resulting Glyco-Mapper glycoform, enabling
one to predict the biotherapeutic glycosylation phenotype from singlegene (or multi-gene) changes in a method similar to Khodayari et al.
(2014). Specifically, the collection of glycans in production within the
cell is initially calculated by evaluating the algorithms demonstrated in
Supp. Tables 5–7 per the reactions defined in Supp. Tables 1–2 to model
the active glycosylation and CCM gene fluxes. The collection of glycans
is then altered using the fuzzy enzyme parameters and simplified enzyme reaction kinetics as listed in Supp. Table 8 to predict a final
glycoform.
Glyco-Mapper inputs include the type of recombinant protein (mAb
or non-mAb) and a cellular location of the glycoprotein (secreted or
intracellula because both parameters affect the potential glycoform.
The input list of media sugar components enables nucleotide sugar
reaction metabolism calculations and permits the calculation of nucleotide sugar production and availability as additional input variables.
Each glycosylation and metabolism gene parameter is an input variable
that accounts for the flux of the corresponding enzyme, discretely
ranging in value between 0 and 5, to determine the potential glycoform
composition using flux profile fitting. Parameter values are adapted
from transcriptomic data, but if data is not available, the input parameters were selected empirically in a manual and iterative process in
accordance with experimental observations to achieve minimal differences between the predicted and experimental reference glycoforms.
Glyco-Mapper outputs include a list of the predicted glycoform
glycan composition as well as a count of the glycans within each glycoform. Glyco-Mapper generates four glycoform lists dependent upon
two different parameters, glycan classification (the individual glycans
(A3G1, A3G2, A3G3) or glycan monosaccharide groupings (A3G)), and
secretion classification (the likely secreted glycoform (glycans to be
secreted from the cell) or comprehensive intracellular glycoform composition (glycans that will not be secreted from the cell)). Each combination of parameters yields a slightly different glycoform view and
understanding of the glycosylation reaction network. Lastly, an optional user-selected glycan is predicted to be present or absent in the
final glycoform, and if absent, the metabolism or glycosylation genes
preventing the glycan's production are identified. Glyco-Mapper in the
current form is only able to predict each glycan in a binary form
(presence or absence), not the various quantitative glycan
concentrations or levels. This feature is a result of the lack of traditional
enzymatic rate equations (Michaelis-Menten kinetics) and was done
with the goal of establishing Glyco-Mapper version 1.0 as a glycosylation network prediction tool that combines ease of use with CHO-specific genomic accuracy.
3.2. Statistical information
For each predicted glycoform, the accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity statistics are solely representative of the predicted glycoforms,
and not the reference glycoforms or any combination thereof. The accuracy percentage represents the percentage of correct glycan predictions within the experimentally-modified glycoform and was calculated
as the sum of experimentally-validated, present and absent glycans
predicted divided by the total number of glycans within the glycoform.
The specificity percentage represents the true negative prediction rate,
calculated as the number of both predicted and experimentally absent
glycans divided by the total number of experimentally absent glycans.
The sensitivity percentage represents the true positive prediction rate,
calculated as the number of both predicted and experimentally present
glycans divided by the total number of experimentally present glycans.
The delta accuracy percentage represents the accuracy rate of the glycans that changed either their prediction or experimental status between the reference and predicted glycoforms, calculated as the number
of correctly predicted glycans that changed status divided by the total
number of glycans that changed status. The relative glycan composition
deemed to be statistically significant and a non-minor peak was a
composition greater than 1% for all literature and experimental calculations in a method similar to Fukuta et al. (2001).
The GnT-II siRNA knockdown qRT-PCR data was analyzed as technical triplicates of biological triplicates (Supp. Fig. 4). The results were
statistically analyzed in JMP and the two sample one-sided t-test was
conducted assuming unequal variances with an alpha of 0.05 and resulting in p < 0.0001. The difference between the average GnT-II
knockdown and negative control samples was 2.51, the t ratio was 7.5,
the standard error difference was 0.335, and the degrees of freedom
